lazy leggett loaf this recipe is my
attempt to produce a great tasting
baguette ish or ciabatta like substance
without needing any skill or putting
forth much effort only special equipment
required is a food grade spray bottle of
water which is a useful thing to have
around anyway this video is sponsored by
Vistal supply the maker of that natural
bamboo cheese board which would make a
great gift
follow my link in the description and
enter the discount code Adam 10 at
checkout to get 10% off we're gonna do a
single portion of dough in a small
sealable container glass is best the
acid in the dough could draw harmful
chemicals from plastic and some metals
certainly aluminum in goes half a cup of
water than like a pinch of yeast maybe
an eighth of a teaspoon at most then
half a teaspoon of salt no matter what
anyone tells you that will not kill the
yeast and it's easier to integrate
evenly if you add it to the water
instead of the flour one cup of bread
flour and grab a silicone spatula and
use that to just bring this together
this is a no need bread dough if you're
looking for a recipe with precise
measurements look elsewhere here's how
to judge the hydration of this by eye it
should be just wet enough that it has no
visible dry patches just wet enough if
it does have visible dry patches then
add a little bit of water and that spray
bottle is a great way of adding a tiny
little bit there we go it's wet enough
that it kind of glistens all over but
it's still pretty firm cover this up
some people say you need to leave a gap
in the seal so the yeast can breathe but
I've never noticed a difference okay you
probably can't bake this today if you
want bread as soon as tomorrow let it
sit out most of the day until it's
really noticeably risen like that and
then toss it in the fridge overnight
which is what we're gonna do this time
the best way to do it however is to mix
it up and throw it straight into the
fridge for many days a week even no
counter rise the longer and slower the
rise the better the flavor and you could
stack up a whole bunch in there and have
dates written on them so you can have
bread any time in our case we did a
table rise followed by the fridge and
now it's the next day and grab a baking
sheet and lay on a piece of parchment
paper and grab your super sticky dough
out of the fridge and rather than flour
your hands just get them wet water can
be a perfectly effective lubricant peel
it out of the container while deflating
it as little as possible this is way
easier if it's
and just stretch it out into a log
that's as long as your baking sheet is
diagonally no complicated folding or
shaping procedures just stretch it out
and put it on to the parchment you might
be thinking isn't that gonna stick to
the parchment without any flour or
anything yes it is and we're counting on
that give it a spray to keep the top
from drying out and just let it sit out
uncovered for an hour hour and a half
don't expect it to proof up a ton but it
should look a little puffier before you
bake the fact that the dough sticks hard
to the parchment prevents it from
spreading out really flat and it forces
some of its rise upward it's like using
a Koosh except zero work heat your oven
to 500 Fahrenheit convection if you've
got it and when it's good and hot throw
your tray in right in the middle and
spray it with a ton of water I'm
spraying both the bread and the walls of
the oven this replicates the effect of
professional steam injection ovens
without bothering to put a pan of
boiling water or something in the bottom
you want to open it up and spray it
again
every minute or two for the first few
minutes this keeps the outside of the
bread from setting up hard before it
gets a chance to oven spring that's when
steam builds up inside the dough and
pops it up giving you a nice open
structure basically whenever I see the
dough has gone visibly dry I spray it
again every minute or two until it seems
to have puffed up as much as it's gonna
puff like ten minutes after it went in
then you could stop spraying it if you
want but I like to keep spraying every
four or five minutes because that gets
you a really shiny crust one of the
advantages of laying the dough down
diagonally is it makes it really easy
for you to reach in there and spray the
back of the loaf if you're not sure when
it's done you could always take its
temperature pull it when the internal
temp is 190 to 200 Fahrenheit but I find
that when the crust is deep amber it's
done that one took 22 minutes I'm sure
your times will vary when it's cool
enough to touch you can just peel it off
the parchment paper and look at that
between the very wet no need dough and
the fact that we didn't do any complex
shaping work this is still flatter than
a baguette but who's to say that's a bad
thing
in the mirror universe where this
happened to develop as the traditional
method me with a goatee is probably
saying yeah you know this newfangled
baguette thing doesn't get you that same
flat look that tradition really demands
but it's an OK substitution long live
the Empire
all right let's slicer open audibly thin
crispy crust and even down there in the
thinnest part we've got an open fluffy
structure
I am totally jumping on the no-knead
bandwagon water and time achieved
basically all the same chemical and
biological effects that you get from
traditional methods don't get excited
that's not white wine it's Vinho Verde
pretty much the only white ish wine I
actually drink now if only I had some
cheese dry sausage and homemade pickles
and well would you look at that now if
only I had a cheese knife and well would
you look at that makes this a perfect
grab and go situation for a party or a
picnic thanks again to Vistal supply for
sponsoring this video get 10% off this
board with my link and code in the
description those homemade pickles by
the way easiest sweet pickle ever whole
12 ounce bottle of rice vinegar goes
into a glass bowl then as much sugar as
you can dissolve into it cold about a
cup or less if you don't like them too
sweet chop up a couple cups of veggies
I'm doing cauliflower green beans and
radishes pickled cauliflower is
delicious but be warned it's kind of
stinky throw that covered into the
fridge for at least a day and man that
is just one of my favorite meals and
that lazy loaf has a better flavor and
texture than anything I can buy in my
little town if you have an awesome
French bakery down the street don't
bother but if you're on your own like me
give this a shot let me know how it goes